<h1 align="center">
  go-optioner
</h1>
go-optioner is a tool for generating functional options pattern in Go code. This tool can automatically generate corresponding options code based on the given struct definition.

---

English | [中文简体](./README-zh_CN.md)

# Installation
- 1、`go install github.com/chenmingyong0423/go-optioner/cmd/optioner@latest`
- 2、Run the `optioner` command to check if the installation is successful.
```
> optioner
go-optioner is a tool for generating functional options pattern.
Usage: 
         go-optioner [flags]
Flags:
         -type <struct name>
```
If you install it successfully and the `optioner` command is not found, make sure to add `$GOPATH/bin` to your environment variables.

# Quick Start
- 1、First, you need to create a `Go` file containing the struct definition for which you want to generate the function options pattern. Above the struct definition, add the `//go:generate optioner -type XXX` comment, where `XXX` is the name of the struct. This will enable the tool to generate the corresponding code based on the provided parameter. In the struct fields, you can use the `opt` tag to control whether to generate the corresponding functions and whether the field is a required parameter for the `NewXXX()` function.
```go
package example

//go:generate optioner -type User
type User struct {
	Name   string `opt:"-"`
	Age    int
	Gender string
}
```
If a field is tagged with `opt` and its value is `-`, it will be treated as a required parameter for the `NewXXX` function, and the corresponding `WithXXX` function will not be generated.
- 2、In the directory where the struct definition file is located, run the `go generate` command. This will call the `optioner` tool and generate the corresponding function options pattern code based on the struct definition. The generated code will be similar to the following:
```go
// Generated by optioner -type User; DO NOT EDIT
// If you have any questions, please create issues and submit contributions at:
// https://github.com/chenmingyong0423/go-optioner

package example

type UserOption func(*User)

func NewUser(name string, opts ...UserOption) *User {
	user := &User{
		Name: name,
	}

	for _, opt := range opts {
		opt(user)
	}

	return user
}

func WithAge(age int) UserOption {
	return func(user *User) {
		user.Age = age
	}
}

func WithGender(gender string) UserOption {
	return func(user *User) {
		user.Gender = gender
	}
}

```
The `optioner` tool will generate a file named `opt_xxx_gen.go`, where `xxx` is the name of the struct, for example, `opt_user_gen.go`. This file contains the generated function options code to initialize the struct and set the struct fields' values.

# How to Contribute
We welcome contributions from others! If you have any questions, suggestions for improvement, or have found a bug, please create an issue to discuss it with us. If you want to contribute code changes, please follow these steps:

1、Fork this repository and clone it to your local machine.

2、Create a new branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`.

3、Make your modifications or add new features on your branch.

4、Commit your changes: `git commit -m "Describe your changes"`.

5、Push to your Fork repository: 1git push origin feature/your-feature1.

6、Create a Pull Request to merge your changes into the main repository.

Please ensure that your code follows the project's coding style and passes the tests.

# License
This project is licensed under the [Apache License](https://github.com/chenmingyong0423/go-optioner/blob/main/LICENSE).

# Contact Us
If you have any questions or suggestions, you can contact us through the following methods:
- Email: [chenmingyong5873@126.com]
- GitHub: [https://github.com/chenmingyong0423]
